In this activity, you will create an incident report using the knowledge you’ve gained about networks throughout this course to analyze a network incident. You will analyze the situation using the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF). The CSF is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk. Creating a quality cybersecurity incident report and applying the CSF can demonstrate a proactive approach to security, improving communication and transparency with stakeholders, and improve security practices within your organization. You can also add the incident report you create to your cybersecurity portfolio when  you complete it.

The CSF is scalable and can be applied in a wide variety of contexts. As you continue to learn more and refine your understanding of key cybersecurity skills, you can use the templates provided in this activity in other situations. Knowing how to identify which security measures to apply in response to business needs will help you determine which are the best available options when it comes to network security.

Be sure to complete this activity before moving on. In the next course item, you will be able to self-assess your response. After that, there will be a completed exemplar to compare to your own work. It will also provide an opportunity for you to answer rubric questions that allow you to reflect on key elements of your professional statement.
